README.md, before:

# My Portfolio

## Planning

- I originally built this site in vanilla HTML, CSS and JS. As the project expanded it became harder to edit, so I decided to use React and Vite with Tailwind CSS. Later I migrated it to Astro in order to add some new features(see below).
- Generated shades for the colour scheme based on my favourite blue, Yves Klein Blue(#002FA7), plain black and white and orangepeel (#FFA630).
- Redesigned [my old portfolio](https://github.com/jones58/portfolio) in Figma. Using the "html.to.design" plugin proved to be very helpful. Whilst this was probably a bit overkill for this project, this could be a good workflow for other projects.
- Thought about the components that make up my website - this was useful for helping the move to React.

## Building and Debugging

- Bootstrapped with React + Vite
- Imported the Html from [my old portfolio](https://github.com/jones58/portfolio), this involved splitting the code into JSX files for React. This was one of the main reasons for switching to React - being able to have easily editable components like the footer and header, rather than repeating them on every page.
- Changed the colour scheme to reflect my favourite blue (#002FA7), calling it ykb within tailwind.config.js.
- While building the coding section, I realised that I could use a map function to generate elements and avoid having to write everything out by hand. This will allow me to easily add any future projects.
- I originally started with screenshots of both mobile and desktop, but this felt a bit plain so i decided to make a phone mockup using photoshop and [Facebook design resources](https://design.facebook.com/toolsandresources/devices/).
- I realised that images weren't loading properly for my production build, so I put them in public as per the (Vite documentation)[https://vitejs.dev/guide/assets.html#importing-asset-as-url].
- I fixed layout issues using `border-2 border-black` for Tailwind CSS and `console.log("test")` for JSX.
- I took each page and component at a time
  - this helped speed up my workflow, as I could easily debug each one at a time and remain focussed.
- I ran Google Lighthouse to check accessibility. While I was happy with the scores (100, 85, 100, 91), I realised there was more I could be doing for accessibility so I added meta description and increased the maximum scale to 5 in my 'index.html' according to the reccommendations.
- Further to this, I ran Axe developer tools in my developer tools section and was advised to remove: "maximum-scale=5, user-scalable=no" from the 'index.html' file because it does not support accessibility for people with low vision who need magnification to see the content.
- Set font to [Neue Haas Unica](https://fontsinuse.com/typefaces/38883/neue-haas-unica), a typeface by one of my favourite type designers, [Toshi Omagari](http://tosche.net/). The easiest way to set this was changing the default fonts in tailwind.config.js., and set font-face in index.css.

## Moving to Astro

- In late February 2024, I decided I wanted to migrate the site, in React, Vite and Tailwind CSS, to Astro. It took me a relatively short amount of time to edit my codebase and I was very happy with the result.
- I wanted to do this because it would allow me to easily add a blog to my site, and tinker with different frameworks such as Svelte and Vue within one project.
- I had some problems using Font Awesome icons in Astro, so I decided to use SVGs instead, from FreeCodeCamp and [Iconify](https://iconify.design/).

## Blog

- One of the advantages of moving to Astro was that I could use Markdown files to make a blog. I followed the [tutorial](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorial/0-introduction/) in the Astro Docs to get the basics down. This tutorial was really helpful, teaching me about YAML Frontmatter, Astro props and how to setup RSS.
- Added [the tailwindcss-typography plugin](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss-typography) to allow me to use the prose class to style md content. This adds spaces between lines and makes big blocks of text easier to read.

## Other Improvements

- Added the Astro JS Sitemap plugin to improve SEO by generating a sitemap xml.
- Following some user feedback, I added labels to the icons for my tech stack on the main page.

## Redesigning

- Following user feedback, I wanted to make the site look more professional so I decided to implement some changes based on the Material Design guidelines. In particular, the guidelines on [navigation bars](https://m3.material.io/components/navigation-bar/guidelines).
  - reduced navigation bar to 4 items instead of 6 and made smaller.
  - Made footer not sticky
  - Added a ykb dark and ykb light colour to the tailwind config so i have more options, basically lighter and darker shades of the original blue colour which I can use across the site.
  - Edited the design of the header, following [Material Design](https://m3.material.io/components/top-app-bar/overview) for the mobile header.
- Moved the contact form to the site's footer to encourage people to get in touch and reduce the number of pages that the site has.
- It then made sense to add the social icon links to the bottom right of the footer, rather than in the header. This made the mobile header much sleeker.
- I noticed an issue sorting blogposts by date, so I remedied this by converting the pubdate strings to a date object, then using getTime to get the time since January 1, 1970 in milliseconds, which could be used for sorting.
- redesigned coding page with material design guidelines in mind.
- Added screenshots to the coding page (MDPI Laptop and Pixel 5 Android 11 size).
- Changed font to Real Text Pro.
- edited design of contact page to look more material design.
- I wanted to add some animations to the site, so I used Astro transitions. This couldn't have been simpler, as I added `import { ViewTransitions } from 'astro:transitions';` and `<ViewTransitions />` to my layout files, adding a transition between pages.
- Added analytics with Umami.
- Standardised colours across the site: ## Colours check
- neutral-900 instead of (dark) gray or black
- neutral-100 instead of white
- neutral-300 instead of (light) gray

## Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                   | Action                                           |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`             | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`             | Starts local dev server at `localhost:4321`      |
| `npm run build`           | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `npm run preview`         | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `npm run astro ...`       | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run astro -- --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

Commit message:

adding more depth to coding page

README.md, after:

# My Portfolio

## Planning

- I originally built this site in vanilla HTML, CSS and JS. As the project expanded it became harder to edit, so I decided to use React and Vite with Tailwind CSS. Later I migrated it to Astro in order to add some new features(see below).
- Generated shades for the colour scheme based on my favourite blue, Yves Klein Blue(#002FA7), plain black and white and orangepeel (#FFA630).
- Redesigned [my old portfolio](https://github.com/jones58/portfolio) in Figma. Using the "html.to.design" plugin proved to be very helpful. Whilst this was probably a bit overkill for this project, this could be a good workflow for other projects.
- Thought about the components that make up my website - this was useful for helping the move to React.

## Building and Debugging

- Bootstrapped with React + Vite
- Imported the Html from [my old portfolio](https://github.com/jones58/portfolio), this involved splitting the code into JSX files for React. This was one of the main reasons for switching to React - being able to have easily editable components like the footer and header, rather than repeating them on every page.
- Changed the colour scheme to reflect my favourite blue (#002FA7), calling it ykb within tailwind.config.js.
- While building the coding section, I realised that I could use a map function to generate elements and avoid having to write everything out by hand. This will allow me to easily add any future projects.
- I originally started with screenshots of both mobile and desktop, but this felt a bit plain so i decided to make a phone mockup using photoshop and [Facebook design resources](https://design.facebook.com/toolsandresources/devices/).
- I realised that images weren't loading properly for my production build, so I put them in public as per the (Vite documentation)[https://vitejs.dev/guide/assets.html#importing-asset-as-url].
- I fixed layout issues using `border-2 border-black` for Tailwind CSS and `console.log("test")` for JSX.
- I took each page and component at a time
  - this helped speed up my workflow, as I could easily debug each one at a time and remain focussed.
- I ran Google Lighthouse to check accessibility. While I was happy with the scores (100, 85, 100, 91), I realised there was more I could be doing for accessibility so I added meta description and increased the maximum scale to 5 in my 'index.html' according to the reccommendations.
- Further to this, I ran Axe developer tools in my developer tools section and was advised to remove: "maximum-scale=5, user-scalable=no" from the 'index.html' file because it does not support accessibility for people with low vision who need magnification to see the content.
- Set font to [Neue Haas Unica](https://fontsinuse.com/typefaces/38883/neue-haas-unica), a typeface by one of my favourite type designers, [Toshi Omagari](http://tosche.net/). The easiest way to set this was changing the default fonts in tailwind.config.js., and set font-face in index.css.

## Moving to Astro

- In late February 2024, I decided I wanted to migrate the site, in React, Vite and Tailwind CSS, to Astro. It took me a relatively short amount of time to edit my codebase and I was very happy with the result.
- I wanted to do this because it would allow me to easily add a blog to my site, and tinker with different frameworks such as Svelte and Vue within one project.
- I had some problems using Font Awesome icons in Astro, so I decided to use SVGs instead, from FreeCodeCamp and [Iconify](https://iconify.design/).

## Blog

- One of the advantages of moving to Astro was that I could use Markdown files to make a blog. I followed the [tutorial](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorial/0-introduction/) in the Astro Docs to get the basics down. This tutorial was really helpful, teaching me about YAML Frontmatter, Astro props and how to setup RSS.
- Added [the tailwindcss-typography plugin](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss-typography) to allow me to use the prose class to style md content. This adds spaces between lines and makes big blocks of text easier to read.

## Other Improvements

- Added the Astro JS Sitemap plugin to improve SEO by generating a sitemap xml.
- Following some user feedback, I added labels to the icons for my tech stack on the main page.

## Redesigning

- Following user feedback, I wanted to make the site look more professional so I decided to implement some changes based on the Material Design guidelines. In particular, the guidelines on [navigation bars](https://m3.material.io/components/navigation-bar/guidelines).
  - reduced navigation bar to 4 items instead of 6 and made smaller.
  - Made footer not sticky
  - Added a ykb dark and ykb light colour to the tailwind config so i have more options, basically lighter and darker shades of the original blue colour which I can use across the site.
  - Edited the design of the header, following [Material Design](https://m3.material.io/components/top-app-bar/overview) for the mobile header.
- Moved the contact form to the site's footer to encourage people to get in touch and reduce the number of pages that the site has.
- It then made sense to add the social icon links to the bottom right of the footer, rather than in the header. This made the mobile header much sleeker.
- I noticed an issue sorting blogposts by date, so I remedied this by converting the pubdate strings to a date object, then using getTime to get the time since January 1, 1970 in milliseconds, which could be used for sorting.
- redesigned coding page with material design guidelines in mind.
- Added screenshots to the coding page (MDPI Laptop and Pixel 5 Android 11 size).
- Changed font to Real Text Pro.
- edited design of contact page to look more material design.
- I wanted to add some animations to the site, so I used Astro transitions. This couldn't have been simpler, as I added `import { ViewTransitions } from 'astro:transitions';` and `<ViewTransitions />` to my layout files, adding a transition between pages.
- Added analytics with Umami.
- Standardised colours across the site:

  - neutral-900 instead of (dark) gray or black
  - neutral-100 instead of white
  - neutral-300 instead of (light) gray

- Added better descriptions of each of my coding projects.

## Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                   | Action                                           |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`             | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`             | Starts local dev server at `localhost:4321`      |
| `npm run build`           | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `npm run preview`         | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `npm run astro ...`       | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run astro -- --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |
