todo.md, before:

## to do first

- finish wander page using podroll and blogroll.
- Make frontpage more like github profile page: https://github.com/jones58
- add vital signs and right to city to coding content properly.

## sitewide design changes

- Use Dribble, and other inspiration sites to copy good design
- [good way of showing projects](https://ohamidux.com/work)
- check site design across mobile.
- [tailwind components ](https://floatui.com/)
- some portfolio examples for inspiration: https://www.are.na/jack-kershaw/portfolio-khzymlhkihk
- tbh the whole site could do with a do-over, in terms of colours and style.
  [text](https://graphicdesignjunction.com/2024/06/how-to-modernize-your-website/?utm_source=vero&utm_medium=email&utm_content=control&utm_campaign=20240605%20Insider%20%28Sponsored%20by%20DMI%29&utm_term=Newsletter#N6)
- Set hover:text-ykb on all a elements, don't use hover underline. hover:text-ykbdark if in footer or header
- Check to see if colours in all pages fit: bg-neutral-100 text-neutral-900 dark:bg-neutral-900 dark:text-neutral-100 . In most cases the lighter colours will need to be made lighter.

## home page

- make better call to action on page like contact ...(like on [Learn UI/UX Design at DesignCourse](https://designcourse.com/coaching))
- move tech stack to within coding element
- More space below learning resources here on mobile

## Coding

- add puppeteer to get images dynamically rather than screenshotting manually.
- Fix layout so don't have to scroll down so much
- Each project opens own page - like with design page, use a component layout to get it consistent.
- add a little bit about what new things you learnt or what was challenging for each project - make it a mini version of readme in github tbh.
- For the coding projects include some process images ie research, early sketches, prototypes , feedback collection etc.
- update portfolio images - maybe use puppeteer to get this done dynamically.
- fix images, tbh should be able to autogenerate these with puppeteer or such, at least something in build stage. look into.

## Animations

- Add some animations! Look into cool things to do with Astro transitions etc.
  - framer motion or gsap too
  - css animations site that used with daily challenges site.
  - animations like on vital signs
  - [text](https://locomotivemtl.github.io/lo
  - [text](https://gsap.com/scroll/)
  - [text](http://michalsnik.github.io/aos/)

## contact form

- Fix so it sends to an api with axios instead of using submitform.

## Design page

- Lay out each design on a page when click on it.
- For the design work include some process images ie research, early sketches, prototypes , feedback collection etc.
- Use as inspo to improve how design page looks: [Pentagram](https://www.pentagram.com/) and [MOMA](https://www.moma.org/calendar/exhibitions/5657s)
- pelicula - present like this: https://tosche.net/fonts/dossier

## Accessibility

- use audit thing in dev environment , make edits it suggests particularly for accessibility.
- use lighthouse and make suggested edits.

## Blog

- Write Blog Posts, see ideas in [drafts folder](src/pages/blog/_drafts) and todoist.
- Maybe add mailing list as alt to rss - use buttondown.
- Add follow along buttons like on [this site](https://manuelmoreale.com/pb-simone-silvestroni) at the bottom of each post.

- Good send me message thing on blog [Oh Hello Ana](https://ohhelloana.blog/i-want-it-all/)
- check that blog page has posts with newest at top

# other

- Add guestbook [On guestbooks – Manu](https://manuelmoreale.com/@/page/25583Thdp8L1dO0C)

- [Using Eleventy to Gobble Up Everything I Do Online - Invidious](https://yewtu.be/watch?v=e_87IF7KGgo)

- Slash pages - see robb knight site for slash pages to add to site

- Good about blurb, use similar on portfolio // also look at other landing pages // Home | chriskirknielsen

- Portfolio make like this [Building a reactive website](https://feedpress.me/link/23795/16619744/building-a-reactive-website)

- Good way of structuring portfolio PHANTOM | SUPERDRY

- improve SEO of portfolio with npm package/other way like robots.txt and metadata - see vital signs

- make design page more like rey portfolio with page for each design. maybe share that in adg.

- Good post on improving personal portfolio - do same when do yours [Video][ Francesco Longo on LinkedIn: Exciting Updates: Revamping My Portfolio from Scratch! 🚀 As a developer,…]

## Wander page (/wander)

maybe add:

- youtube subs
- are.na
- any other sites which have info of yours/you lik (look through in Bitwarden)
- fontsinuse
- my fav sites etc.

Commit message:

adding more photos and projects

todo.md, after:

## to do first

- Make frontpage more like github profile page: https://github.com/jones58
- make the rest of site more material design like the coding page.

## Coding

- add a little bit about what new things you learnt or what was challenging for each project - make it a mini version of readme in github tbh. There's space to add this on the main page in description.
- Each project opens own page - like with design page, use a component layout to get it consistent.
  - Include some process images ie research, early sketches, prototypes , feedback collection etc.

## sitewide design changes

- Use Dribble, and other inspiration sites to copy good design
- [good way of showing projects](https://ohamidux.com/work)
- check site design across mobile.
- [tailwind components ](https://floatui.com/)
- some portfolio examples for inspiration: https://www.are.na/jack-kershaw/portfolio-khzymlhkihk
- tbh the whole site could do with a do-over, in terms of colours and style.
  [text](https://graphicdesignjunction.com/2024/06/how-to-modernize-your-website/?utm_source=vero&utm_medium=email&utm_content=control&utm_campaign=20240605%20Insider%20%28Sponsored%20by%20DMI%29&utm_term=Newsletter#N6)
- Set hover:text-ykb on all a elements, don't use hover underline. hover:text-ykbdark if in footer or header
- Check to see if colours in all pages fit: bg-neutral-100 text-neutral-900 dark:bg-neutral-900 dark:text-neutral-100 . In most cases the lighter colours will need to be made lighter.

## home page

- make better call to action on page like contact ...(like on [Learn UI/UX Design at DesignCourse](https://designcourse.com/coaching))
- move tech stack to within coding element
- More space below learning resources here on mobile

## Animations

- Add some animations! Look into cool things to do with Astro transitions etc.
  - framer motion or gsap too
  - css animations site that used with daily challenges site.
  - animations like on vital signs
  - [text](https://locomotivemtl.github.io/lo
  - [text](https://gsap.com/scroll/)
  - [text](http://michalsnik.github.io/aos/)

## contact form

- Fix so it sends to an api with axios instead of using submitform.

## Design page

- Lay out each design on a page when click on it.
- For the design work include some process images ie research, early sketches, prototypes , feedback collection etc.
- Use as inspo to improve how design page looks: [Pentagram](https://www.pentagram.com/) and [MOMA](https://www.moma.org/calendar/exhibitions/5657s)
- pelicula - present like this: https://tosche.net/fonts/dossier

## Accessibility

- use audit thing in dev environment , make edits it suggests particularly for accessibility.
- use lighthouse and make suggested edits.

## Blog

- Write Blog Posts, see ideas in [drafts folder](src/pages/blog/_drafts) and todoist.
- Maybe add mailing list as alt to rss - use buttondown.
- Add follow along buttons like on [this site](https://manuelmoreale.com/pb-simone-silvestroni) at the bottom of each post.

- Good send me message thing on blog [Oh Hello Ana](https://ohhelloana.blog/i-want-it-all/)
- check that blog page has posts with newest at top

# other

- Add guestbook [On guestbooks – Manu](https://manuelmoreale.com/@/page/25583Thdp8L1dO0C)

- [Using Eleventy to Gobble Up Everything I Do Online - Invidious](https://yewtu.be/watch?v=e_87IF7KGgo)

- Slash pages - see robb knight site for slash pages to add to site

- Good about blurb, use similar on portfolio // also look at other landing pages // Home | chriskirknielsen

- Portfolio make like this [Building a reactive website](https://feedpress.me/link/23795/16619744/building-a-reactive-website)

- Good way of structuring portfolio PHANTOM | SUPERDRY

- improve SEO of portfolio with npm package/other way like robots.txt and metadata - see vital signs

- make design page more like rey portfolio with page for each design. maybe share that in adg.

- Good post on improving personal portfolio - do same when do yours [Video][ Francesco Longo on LinkedIn: Exciting Updates: Revamping My Portfolio from Scratch! 🚀 As a developer,…]

## Wander page (/wander)

- add more blogs when got server going again and can download from FreshRSS.
- maybe add:
  - youtube subs
  - are.na
  - any other sites which have info of yours/you lik (look through in Bitwarden)
  - fontsinuse
  - my fav sites etc.
