{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh16880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Why Should Students Care About Open-Source \
\
- just finished government funded bootcamp, learnt a lot but only ten minutes on Github and why open-source is important \
- pretty much every tool use as a developer you use is open-source in some way\
- for someone learning \
	- read other people's code\
	- take a snippet of other people's code to learn the coding language \
	- import skill to be able to read other people's code , important for working at any company because you will be looking through a codebase of other people's code, whether it's open source or not\
	- students have more time to make contributions on open source - fresh understanding can be useful/not weighed down by one stack they use \
\
if you're a student and want to test out a technology, you can use a snippet of someone else's code and use it. For example, if you wanted to test out databases, you could someone else's code for the frontend and practice implementing the database. Allows you to not be an expert in something, say React, and you want a React frontend for your database you can borrow someone else's and add database, anything really. Even if you wanted to play around with different CSS, you could get a HTML document and then practise adding CSS to it/ improving the CSS. \
\
Open-source encourages play \
\
\
\
the dark side of open source\
- see fireship video, wendy liu freedom isn't free on death of free software movement. \
\
- anyone who works in software is a student, there's always new technologies to learn and keep on top of. even if not a student can \
\
- how to contribute \
	- good first issues \
	- kind of things people can contribute to:\
		- readmes , documentation making sure it is readable\
			- if you come to it and don't really understand it you can suggest improvements \
			- in turn this helps other students \
			- surge effect, the more tyou get involved, the more other people will be able to get involved\
		- design \
- where \
	- github main place\
	- gitlab \
\
\
also the tools you learn with, roadmap.sh allow you to edit the website on github. good way of encouraging collaborative learning. If the learning website doesn't make sense, you have to look it up, go on stack overflow, look at another resource to work out what they mean, figure it out. What you can then do is clarify this so someone who in same position as you can learn from it and saves people time.  on github:

https://madebymade.medium.com/github-for-dummies-96f753f96a59

also this on free software movement: https://logicmag.io/failure/freedom-isnt-free/?utm_source=pocket_mylist
\
\
\
}
